Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice
she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it, “and what is the use
of a book,” thought Alice “without pictures or conversations?” So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she
could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be
worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.
(when she thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all
seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually _took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket_, and looked at it, and
then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with
either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it,
and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge. First, she tried to look down
and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.
She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was labelled “ORANGE MARMALADE”, but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put
it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it. (for, you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a _very_ good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was
no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) “—yes, that’s about the right distance—but then I
wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?” (she was rather glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it
didn’t sound at all the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her
very earnestly, “Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over. Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still
in sight, hurrying down it. She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:
she found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof. There were doors all
round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying
every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again. Suddenly she came upon a
little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice’s first
thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key
was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little
golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted! How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander
about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the
doorway; “and even if my head would go through,” thought poor Alice, “it would be of very little use without my
shoulders. There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hoping she might
find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this time she found a
little bottle on it, (“which certainly was not here before,” said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
label, with the words “DRINK ME,” beautifully printed on it in large letters. “No, I’ll look first,” she said, “and see
whether it’s marked ‘_poison_’ or not”; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt,
and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they _would_ not remember the simple rules their
friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger _very_ deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle
marked “poison,” it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later. However, this bottle was _not_ marked
“poison,” so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of
cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off. And so
it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if
she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end, you know,” said Alice to
herself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on
going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the
little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach it: she could see
it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too
slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried. She generally gave
herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to
bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of
croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people. “Well,
I’ll eat it,” said Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can
creep under the door; so either way I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!” Which way?”, holding her
hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the
same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting
nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once
took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door. It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and
began to cry again. It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand
and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, “Oh! the
Duchess, the Duchess! “I’m sure I’m not Ada,” she said, “for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in
ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very
little! I’ll try and say ‘_How doth the little_—’” and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to
do:— “How doth the little crocodile Improve his shining tail, And pour the waters of the Nile On every golden scale!
“I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, “I must
be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with,
and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I’ll come up: if not,
I’ll stay down here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!” cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears, “I do wish they
_would_ put their heads down! As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put
on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while she was talking. She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking
rapidly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time
to avoid shrinking away altogether. “That _was_ a narrow escape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden
change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; “and now for the garden!” and she ran with all speed back to
the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, “and things are worse than ever,” thought the poor child, “for I never was so small as this before, never!
(Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the
English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades,
then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of
tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high. Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little
way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she
remembered having seen in her brother’s Latin Grammar, “A mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!”) The Mouse
looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing. Alice
went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her
paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice—oh,
I beg your pardon!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be
really offended. And it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of
things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it’s so useful, it’s worth a
hundred pounds! When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with
passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my
history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.” The first question of course was, how to get dry again:
they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking
familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at
last turned sulky, and would only say, “I am older than you, and must know better;” and this Alice would not allow
without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said. (And,
as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.) First it marked
out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (“the exact shape doesn’t matter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed
along the course, here and there. This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat
for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the
pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so
grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the
thimble, looking as solemn as she could. And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her
idea of the tale was something like this:— “Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house, ‘Let us both go to law: _I_
will prosecute _you_.—Come, I’ll take no denial; We must have a trial: For really this morning I’ve nothing to do.’ Said
the mouse to the cur, ‘Such a trial, dear sir, With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath.’ ‘I’ll be judge, I’ll
be jury,’ Said cunning old Fury: ‘I’ll try the whole cause, and condemn you to death.’” Some of the birds hurried off at
once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, “I really must be getting home; the night-air
doesn’t suit my throat!” and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children, “Come away, my dears! In a little
while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story. CHAPTER IV. The Rabbit Sends in a Little
Bill It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost
something; and she heard it muttering to itself “The Duchess! Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan
and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be
seen—everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the
little door, had vanished completely. By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the
window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a
pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the
looking-glass. She went on growing, and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm
curled round her head. Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself “Now I can do no more, whatever happens. Luckily for Alice, the little magic
bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be
no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy. Alice knew it was the Rabbit
coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand
times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a
little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen
into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort. She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together: she made out the words:
“Where’s the other ladder?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill! fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em
up at this corner—No, tie ’em together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do well enough; don’t be
particular—Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down! She drew
her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn’t guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then, saying to herself “This is Bill,” she
gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next. Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“That’s
Bill,” thought Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell
you—all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!” “The first thing I’ve
got to do,” said Alice to herself, as she wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the second
thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry. “Poor little
thing!” said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the time
at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.
Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy
jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry
it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then
Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every moment to be trampled
under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good
way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut. This seemed to Alice a good
opportunity for making her escape; so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till
the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance. “And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves: “I should have liked teaching it
tricks very much, if—if I’d only been the right size to do it! There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the
same height as herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it. She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the
edge of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large blue caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with
its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else. CHAPTER
V. Advice from a Caterpillar The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence: at last the
Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice. “Well, perhaps you haven’t
found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after
that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?” “You are old,” said the youth, “and
your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak— Pray,
how did you manage to do it?” “And now which is which?” she said to herself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit
to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot! She was a good
deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * “Come, my
head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that
her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her. As there seemed to be no chance of
getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would
bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag,
and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had
been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings. “And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” continued the Pigeon, raising its
voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down
from the sky! This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon
the opportunity of adding, “You’re looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to me whether
you’re a little girl or a serpent?” After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her
hands, and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and
sometimes shorter, until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height. It was so long since she had
been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes, and
began talking to herself, as usual. CHAPTER VI. Pig and Pepper For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood—(she considered him to be a
footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish)—and rapped
loudly at the door with his knuckles. Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of
their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near
the door, staring stupidly up into the sky. At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming
out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.
The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which
seemed to be full of soup. She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped; but she saw in
another moment that it was addressed to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:— “I didn’t
know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t know that cats _could_ grin.” While she was trying to fix on
one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. Alice
glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup,
and seemed not to be listening, so she went on again: “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? And with that she
began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end
of every line: “Speak roughly to your little boy, And beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy, Because he
knows it teases.” While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down,
and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:— “I speak severely to my boy, I beat him
when he sneezes; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases!” The poor little thing was snorting like a
steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for
the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it. As soon as she had made out the proper way of
nursing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so
as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air. There could be no doubt that it had a _very_
turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether
Alice did not like the look of the thing at all. And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very
well as pigs, and was just saying to herself, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when she was a little
startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off. Alice waited a little, half expecting
to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare
was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” she said to herself; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting,
and perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it was in March.” “All right,” said the Cat;
and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained
some time after the rest of it had gone. She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of the
March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched
with fur. It was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit
of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to
herself “Suppose it should be raving mad after all! CHAPTER VII. A Mad Tea-Party There was a table set out under a tree
in front of the house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting between them,
fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. “It
_is_ the same thing with you,” said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a
minute, while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much. “What day of
the month is it?” he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily,
shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear. The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing better to say than his first
remark, “It was the _best_ butter, you know.” Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living
would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: “But why did they live at the bottom of a well?” The
Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke
up again with a little shriek, and went on: “—that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and
muchness—you know you say things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?”
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell
asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she looked back once or twice,
half hoping that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the
teapot. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a
foot high: then she walked down the little passage: and _then_—she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among
the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains. Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun “Well, of all the unjust
things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low. Two began in a low voice, “Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this
here ought to have been a _red_ rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we
should all have our heads cut off, you know. First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the
three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. Then followed the Knave of Hearts,
carrying the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN
OF HEARTS. Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners, but she
could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions; “and besides, what would be the use of a
procession,” thought she, “if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” “And who are
_these?_” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were
lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children. “Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill,
loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children,
and everybody else. “Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all
directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. Alice
thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live
hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and
feet, to make the arches. The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo: she succeeded in
getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she
had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it _would_ twist
itself round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing: and
when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had
unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way
wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to
other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed. The players all
played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short
time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her
head!” about once in a minute. Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dispute with the
Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute, “and then,” thought she, “what would become of me? She was looking
about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious
appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be
a grin, and she said to herself “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.” Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules
in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things
being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground—and
I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!” She had already heard
her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things
at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. The hedgehog was engaged
in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see
it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree. By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t matter much,” thought Alice, “as all the
arches are gone from this side of the ground.” When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a
large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were
all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable. The moment Alice appeared, she
was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke
at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said. The executioner’s argument was, that you
couldn’t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and
he wasn’t going to begin at _his_ time of life. The Cat’s head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the
time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game. CHAPTER IX. The Mock Turtle’s Story “You can’t
think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into
Alice’s, and they walked off together. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper that makes people
hot-tempered,” she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them
sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. Alice
did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was _very_ ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice’s shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. It means much
the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder as she added, “and the moral of
_that_ is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.’” “I quite agree with you,” said the
Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘Be what you would seem to be’—or if you’d like it put more simply—‘Never imagine
yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise
than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise.’” The other guests had taken advantage of the
Queen’s absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the
Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost them their lives. Those whom she sentenced were taken into
custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or
so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under
sentence of execution. (If you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy thing!” said the Queen,
“and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. They had not gone far before they saw the
Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, Alice could
hear him sighing as if his heart would break. “Well, there was Mystery,” the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the
subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.” “Back to land
again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who
had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice. So
they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close,
and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:— “Will you walk a
little faster?” said a whiting to a snail. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” here the
Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.—“Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon. She was a little
nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and
mouths so _very_ wide, but she gained courage as she went on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the
part about her repeating “_You are old, Father William_,” to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and
then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said “That’s very curious.” However, she got up, and began to repeat it,
but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very
queer indeed:— “’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare, “You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.”
[later editions continued as follows When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark, And will talk in contemptuous
tones of the Shark, But, when the tide rises and sharks are around, His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.] Alice
did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:— “I passed
by his garden, and marked, with one eye, How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—” [later editions continued as
follows The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat, While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat. When the
pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon, Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon: While the Panther received knife and
fork with a growl, And concluded the banquet—] Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered “Come on!” and ran
the faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:— “Soo—oop
of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!” The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of
cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was
the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court
was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—“I
wish they’d get the trial done,” she thought, “and hand round the refreshments!” The judge, by the way, was the King;
and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at
all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming. Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for
the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to
make out who was talking. Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders, that all the jurors were
writing down “stupid things!” on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell
“stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to
write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate. On this
the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:— “The
Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts, All on a summer day: The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts, And took them
quite away!” This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting from one foot to the other, looking
uneasily at the Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter. Just
at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was: she
was beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court; but on second
thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her. All this time the Queen had never left
off staring at the Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers of the court,
“Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!” on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his
shoes off. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice, “—and I hadn’t begun my tea—not above
a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—” (As that is rather a hard
word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it.) “I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice.
“I’ve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, “There was some attempts at applause, which was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court,” and I never understood what it meant till now.” “Well, if I must, I must,” the
King said, with a melancholy air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of
sight, he said in a deep voice, “What are tarts made of?” CHAPTER XII. Alice’s Evidence “Here!” cried Alice, quite
forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such a
hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the
crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally
upset the week before. “Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!” she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and began picking them up
again as quickly as she could, for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of
idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or they would die. “The trial cannot proceed,”
said the King in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—_all_,” he repeated with
great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so. Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had
put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite
unable to move. She soon got it out again, and put it right; “not that it signifies much,” she said to herself; “I
should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the trial one way up as the other.” As soon as the jury had a little
recovered from the shock of being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them, they set
to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to
do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the court. They were just beginning to write this
down on their slates, when the White Rabbit interrupted: “_Un_important, your Majesty means, of course,” he said in a
very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke. (Which he certainly did _not_, being made
entirely of cardboard.) “All right, so far,” said the King, and he went on muttering over the verses to himself: “‘_We
know it to be true_—’ that’s the jury, of course—‘_I gave her one, they gave him two_—’ why, that must be what he did
with the tarts, you know—” (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found
it made no mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)
“Then the words don’t _fit_ you,” said the King, looking round the court with a smile. At this the whole pack rose up
into the air, and came flying down upon her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to
beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away
some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face. “Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said Alice,
and she told her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just
been reading about; and when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, “It _was_ a curious dream, dear,
certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.” But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too
began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:— First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones
of her voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that _would_ always get into
her eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange
creatures of her little sister’s dream. The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the frightened
Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his
friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to
execution—once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once more
the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle. So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half
believed herself in Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all would change to dull reality—the
grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling teacups would
change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the
baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the confused clamour of the
busy farm-yard—while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs.
Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman;
and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her childhood: and how she would
gather about her other little children, and make _their_ eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even
with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in
all their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

